#summary Instructions for using the software.

== Step 1: Adding files to be analyzed ==

Select .WAV files to be analyzed.<br>  
_.WAV files must be 16 bit, stereo, 44.1kHz sampling rate (same as a standard CD)_<br>
_See *DFT Input* in [DataFormatsAndConstants Data Formats and Constants] for more infomation_<br>

Copy .WAV files into the [DFTEditorFolder DFTEditor Folder] (which contains DFTEditor.jar and a.exe)<br>
_(It is assumed you have already completed the steps outlined in [BuildInstructions Build Instructions])_<br>

Open a command line window set to the DFTEditor directory, and run r.bat (or the contents of r.bat)<br>
You can run DFTEditor.jar just by clicking on it, but you won't be able to see the progress that is written to the console (and the -Xms2g option may be be needed for larger files, see *Running* in [DFTEditorFolder DFTEditor Folder])<br>
It may take 10 - 30 minutes to analyze a 5 minute long .wav file.  The DFTEditor GUI will be displayed once all new .wav files have been analyzed.<br>
DFTEditor.jar will create a .mono5ms file from the data in each .wav file.  This .mono5ms file contains the frequency domain data for the cooresponding .wav file.<br>

== Step 2: Running DFTEditor ==

_*Note: This is experimental software, so some menu options may not be implemented.*_

Start DFTEditor (see *Running* in [DFTEditorFolder DFTEditor Folder])<br>
Select .mono5ms file to view from the File Prompt (which will come up automatically)<br>
To view another file, select File->Open from the menu bar.<br>

== Viewing the data ==

The data is displayed as a matrix.

The frequency in Hz is displayed on the left.

The time in milliseconds is displayed on the top

The color is based on amplitude and is displayed as followed:<br>
(based on a 16-bit wav file that uses all 16 bits for the loudest passages)<br>
In digit mode, the value displayed is: _log2(amplitude)/2.0_<br>
For values 10.0 or greater, the leading 1 is not displayed<br>

Red = loudest (13.0 to 16.0) = (78dB to 96dB)<br>
Greenish Red = average (10.0 to 13.0) = (60dB to 78dB)<br>
Green = medium soft (7.0 to 10.0) = (42dB to 60dB)<br>
Greenish Blue = very soft (4.0 to 7.0) = (24dB to 42dB)<br>
Blue = barely audible (2.0 to 4.0) = (12dB to 24dB)<br>
Black = silence (less than 2.0) = (less than 12dB)<br>

Increasing a sound by 6dB is perceived as doubling the volume

== Using the navigation bar to adjust the times and frequencies displayed ==

Use "F+31" to "F-31" to move up or down one octave<br>
Use "F+6" to "F-6" to move up or down 6 notes (about 1/5 of an octave)<br>

Use "+_time_" to move forward and "-_time_" to move backward by the indicated amounts<br>